---
layout: page
title: "Albert v0.10 released"
date: 2017-03-19 23:45 +0100
---

Albert v0.10 introduces tab completion using the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key. This allows extensions to suggest a completion text for the input box. An example: You type 2+2 into the box. When you select the calculator item and press complete the equation in the input box resolves to the result 4. The alternative actions have moved to the <kbd>Alt</kbd> key, which has to be hold to show the alternative actions. The default fallback is now on <kbd>Meta</kbd>.

Hovering over the input box the mouse wheel can now be used to browse the history, exactly the way you are used to it with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+.

Further there is a new group of themes, the Spotlight themes, which come in three flavors: Bright, Dark and Space (Gray with Blue accent).

(image removed)

Albert v0.10 ships with two new extensions, MPRIS and a rudimentary ssh extension. Check their documentation for more details.

The terminal extension now provides the shell aliases too.

Further the files extension provides now a way to browse through paths that are _not_ indexed. Queries that begin with either `/` or `~/` are interpreted as a beginning of a path and the extension lists the files in this directory. In combination with the tab completions this is a nice way to browse the file system.

The application extension allows now to ignore the `OnlyShowIn` and `NotShowIn` keys in the desktop entries.

For developers: The bash script to clone the template extension is now deprecated and replaced by a Python script.

Check the [git log](https://github.com/albertlauncher/albert/commits/v0.10.0) for details.
