---
title:  "Albert v0.27.6 released"
date: 2025-04-02 01:27
---

# {{ page.title }}

The plugins are now organized in [submodules](https://github.com/albertlauncher/albert/tree/main/plugins).

## Albert

- Run the empty query on `*`
- Add *'Open in terminal'* action to AppQueryHandler

## API

- Add `albert::Action::hide_on_activation`
- Add `albert::PluginInstance::dataLocations`
- Add `albert::show(const QString&)`
- Add standard message box functions modal to the main window.
  - Add `albert::question(…)`
  - Add `albert::information(…)`
  - Add `albert::warning(…)`
  - Add `albert::critical(…)`

## Plugins

### ``bluetooth``

- Add icons for (in)active/(dis)connected items.
- Add completions.

### ``caffeine``

- Polish translations of durations.
- Add natural duration spec (eg 1h1m).
- Fix weird trigger completions.
- Fix default trigger matching.
- Add deactivation notification.
- Use special text ∞ in settings.

### ``clipboard``

- Avoid flicker by using batch add.

### ``system``

- New icon set.
- Update macOS logout command.

### ``timer``

- Remove timers from empty query without hiding the window.

### ``vpn``

- Add icons clearly indicating the state.

### ``websearch``

- New default icon.

### ``widgetsboxmodel`` and ``widgetsboxmodel-qss``

QStyleSheetStyle and its style sheets are a mess to work with and pretty limited.
They may be suitable to style dedicated widgets but not for entire UIs.
This release lays the foundation for a frontend that is not a pain to work with.
The widgetsboxmodel as you know it has been forked to ``widgetsboxmodel-qss``.
But for now it still has the id `widgetsboxmodel` id until the prototype is polished enough.
The id of the new widgetsboxmodel frontend without style sheets is widgetsboxmodel-ng.

- Theme files support.
- Allow multiline input. Shift enter inserts a newline.
- Empahsize the trigger.
- Add context menu to button
- Allow non hiding actions.
- Add a handcrafted, buffered windowframe. Drop glitchy Qt shadow.
- Add option 'Disable input method'.
- Completion and synopsis side by side.
- Handcrafted rounded rects that support gradients.
- Ads settable window properties like colors, margins, sizes and such.
- Put settingsbutton into the input layout. No overlay anymore.
- Always show action to set the _current_ mode first (dark, light).
- Add debug overlay option
- Loads of fixes and mini improvements.

Check the [GitHub repositories](https://github.com/albertlauncher/albert/commits/v0.27.6) for details.
